all right we are we are seemingly live I
have uh I'm back in California I have a
lot new of new equipment I have a
microphone I also have a nice camera
we're going to try to figure out how we
can get this to be
very nice cuz we want it to be
like we want it to be like um
mounted and then I'll put something on
the background to make it nice we'll get
into that in a second but I want to
show another thing that is very freaking
cool and that
is
um this well hold
on this which is a digital oscilloscope
and it also has a function generator and
so it's pretty cool it's a nice little
device I just got it set up so let's
jump into that
this thing called waveforms and you can
see I don't have any of the probes
attached so it's an un whatever but if
we just run it we can
see that there is some signal if I
like oh this Auto thing is kind of
interesting yeah if we turn off let's
try to turn off
auto oh to and let see this spectrogram
oh let's look at this 3D spectrogram you
think think I'll be doing
that that is pretty
neat a 3D spec what even are the axes
dude this is a really cool piece of
software okay so we have
amplitude I don't know what the why
there's two
amplitudes we have frequency I guess
that's pretty
neat uh so we can close these things I
don't actually know what the this XY
thing is okay so um we can pause this
now uh so that's pretty sweet um I think
it's about time that
we okay I really want like a nice like
Mor it's
Klein has really nice overhead views
when he does breadboarding so I'm
wondering how I'm going to do
that I feel like I could just get a box
and put it to my side maybe I'll go look
for a box the thing is this has a nice
tripod so let's turn it on this is just
not nearly as nice
though off center it really like the
benefit
is you want want it to be like
centered want it to look nice and then
we also don't want anything in the
background
so I feel like a piece of cardboard
might be fine what does he
have he uses this like concrete surface
which is really nice I could use the
white table but I'm not
sure um but the camera angle is
definitely the most important thing so I
might just get some tape
and a box put it like a
pole like this and then just clamp it
down
that all right that's what I'll do I
guess
um yeah and I'll tape it on the this
side of it
okay so let's um go in search of a
box
I
for
okay we found some boxes that's pretty
tool so I think I'm going to do the
thing is I wonder if I can I almost
certainly can just unscrew
this but maybe I don't want
to
[__] okay no
tripod
and then we have some room
here well not really
though see if we stand the Box up like
this that's pretty good it just doesn't
give me a lot of working room whereas
with
the
tripod I could do all the way up to
uh
here hold
on I could go way out to
here all right well let's uh let's see
what we can do about
this first thing I'm going to do I'm
going to tape this thing back
up
oh [__] how do you how do you
even okay
um actually I think you can just rip
duct tape not
nice okay we have a box which is our
Jank camera mount and then I'm just
going to tape it down I
[Music]
think I think I'm going to apply the RNN
filter hold on I'll show you
guys yeah see it's trash day here so
it's like brutal but if we do this and
this
uh hello that looks pretty good to
me okay so now we want this mounted here
move this
back
um I don't know we don't we probably
don't want this to leave a residue it's
probably fine right let just do it [__]
it dude this duct tape is
sweet we're going to see this is
probably not that
sturdy
oh
um
tape it will be worth it
though for good quality
shots
the problem is we don't want wobble we
really don't want
wobble
okay well let's uh test it so let's
screw this back
in yeah it's pretty annoying maybe
there's like a stabilization thing I
could apply I don't know
especially if it's out here and I bump
it you know what but I think that's
fine
[Music]
um I mean that looks pretty
cool I used to in college I used to have
this thing that would there was like a
metal grate above my desk and I would
like clamp I would like clamp it cuz it
was like a rubber thing um okay so let's
just do this
thing
[__]
okay hold it
down we don't need
this
this to be
here okay we'll do the
cross the nice thing about this though
was that um I can move it around I guess
I could detach it but unscrewing it is
kind of a pain um you know
what good enough right in it's so much
better than my previous breadboard
sets uh let's add one more piece of
tape make it in
there
oops really locked down this is about
what wobble we can
expect which I'm pretty fine
with now we just need to cut out one of
the sides of
this
box and use that as our
background
for
I think on the inside it's blank so
we'll use the inside of it
okay all right so let's see how that is
and what we could do is we could tape
two of the bigger ones together so we
don't have this crease but for right now
I think it's fine
okay so now this is our
makeshift Electronics
set and we just nudg it in
there we want the full shot so we can't
move
that do
this Center it that's pretty good all
right so today we are building a voltage
controlled
oscillator
with a couple of parts we are going to
need okay we're going to
need a
tl074 or an 84 doesn't I don't think it
really matters but we're going to need
some
opamps
and yeah the noise floor is pretty good
and we are going to
need some um Schmid triggers some IC so
for right
now I think
um does is there a copy paste oh there
is a duplicate okay well anyways let's
um turn this off for right now and we'll
pull up the
schematic
um actually have
it let's
see put this here just so that no one
[Music]
can oh [__]
H it's
okay
okay we are following this this is the
schematic
um and the bill materials all this can
be found on his channel I'm just going
to be doing the walkthr and we're going
to be doing it on a breadboard but then
I actually have some
stripboard which eventually we're going
to by the end of the week hopefully have
a box that we can actually put our synth
modules in so we'll have a full
thing
um having a second monitor out here
would be helpful so that I could keep
tabs on the
stream okay so yes so the first part of
this is we have two 9volt
batteries okay now hold on I'll be
back
for
okay I need to clean this up put this
back in the
garage CU I don't think we'll need it
for a while
okay so where's my other
battery
okay two 9volt
batteries Clips what I'm going to do
here is I'm just going to um cut it cut
the the heads
off we cut the heads off right about
there wire
strippers we probably want to make these
about equal length so I'll do the first
one oh wait got to make use of this
thing okay so we have our thing I'll
give it some room on both sides so that
you could solder back together if you
needed to cuz cutting it here is stupid
because then you can't use it then this
side the male side is destroyed okay
then we'll strip this wire in a second
but first what we want to
do line these
up oh this one's longer than the other
one
okay uh that's
fine I bought more
anyways okay so now we have these two
things this is junk to me right now cuz
I don't have
anything now we're going to
pull them apart if I
can there we
go okay
and then let's uh find the right size
for
the they're probably less than 22 but
there we
go let's
see oh no that's really annoying
actually they're not
solid that's really
annoying I feel like we could probably
quickly solder
I have I found this
thing and in it are these goldplated
pins or whatever oh I'm going to have to
get used to the focus on my hand anyways
okay so I think I'm going to have to do
that cuz these fit in here really nicely
so maybe we'll have to go get the
soldering iron this isn't how you're
supposed to do it but you know what I
don't give a [__] um speaking of I'm
going to
quickly
um I need a
scene
yeah need a scene that's just black
let's just um rename to
blank
uh
okay I'm
back we are making a DIY syn and where
we are at is that these clips that I
found
have
um nonsolid core
wire which is really [__]
annoying but it's
fine we'll strip off some more of this
so that we can solder to it I was hoping
to not break out the soldering iron so
soon into this
because
whatever but I guess to make this thing
work we could either do this or we could
wait 10
hours to because I bought
some but there's just no way in hell I'm
waiting
okay so off to the
basement
not many people have the luxury of
soldering
outside I had some heat shrink tubing it
would be even
better all right so we need some aesthe
shots so we need
one 2 3 four of these and we're going to
see how this goes let's clear our
space the only problem is this iron
doesn't have a temperature sensor but
that's
fine and then we are going to use a fan
because I'm paranoid about lead solder
but that's all I have right
[Music]
now okay so we don't need the scope at
all Cable
Management move
that this
here
oh God
[Music]
this I mean we're outside but I still
don't
care oh no but that's destroy roing the
uh microphone quality
unfortunately so we're going this
here move this
here okay we're going to turn on the
soldering
iron all
right we are all good
oh this is really thick
solder I need to close the door hold
on
I've been dreaming of someone making an
OBS where you can where you transmit way
more data you transmit all sources in
full quality and microphones and the
compositing gets to be done by the user
like it' be so useful if you wanted to
zoom in on this shot and didn't want to
see my face then you could just turn off
my
face
um but what I can do
actually
is yeah so now this is in front and I
could
do
this I want to show people that I'm
outside but maybe I could crop it all
right so let's move it back down I think
it was good how it
was um and we could just make it a
little
bigger move me over here that seems
pretty good
and then the chat that's nice Okay cool
so the soldering iron is probably up to
Temp or close to we're going to see how
this
goes
nice o I wish I had a zoom
control I wish this thing had like a
physical zoom
button okay but we can see here this
first Contact is pretty strong damn it
doesn't Focus well
either whatever okay now let's do the
second one oh [__] that was not a good
contact need add some more
solder okay use too much solder but it's
all right I also don't have a sponge
which would be kind of Handy right
now how am I going to do
this
I need to be on the let's hold it down
with this
battery is that visible that is sort of
visible
okay good good
good
okay then I think we want to flip it
over
again because this one's not going
anywhere but if we don't flip it over
it's going to be a
problem okay we're almost done with this
and we can power our breadboard with a
dual power supply using 9vt batteries
pretty neat
a
oh this lead solder is actually so easy
to use it's kind of
crazy it just really gets on there so
now for
demonstration instead of using the
stupid wire we can just go like
this and like this and
unfortunately if you can see potentially
the this is awfully close to being
contacted so what we're going to need to
do separate them out and need to do
something silly
like this goes into
here this goes down
here this is only temporary though so
that's okay okay and now let's do the
second
one
okay here we exposed a lot
of oh this solder is so nice it's crazy
I kind of feel like an idiot for
preferring unleaded
solder hold on I got to twist it
up twist it up twist it
up okay so we still need to do this side
of this
one
okay that looks good then our last pin
here see it's
fine
[__] okay that's pretty
good we just need to do a little bit
more all right cool so we're done
now we want to where's my multimeter now
we want to do the tests we can turn this
thing off freezing my
hands okay so we're clipping our
batteries
on so this one so that one now we want
this one to go here
like [__] the wire is so weak I feel
like this is a one day thing Max cuz
this is just so
shitty oh yeah we got to clean this crap
off
here oh this is
horrible maybe I should have just use
alligator clips but it's so
ugly
okay
um so now what we want to do is we want
to
measure okay so we're clipped together
now we want to measure
from okay we'll just measure all of
it
this a pretty aesthetic shot I
think okay so now we are going to
measure where's
the where's the DC voltage
though does this just do
both okay let's just do a simple
continuity
test
uh
H what's up with this
thing
so I'm not getting a
reading I don't know what's up with this
thing I mean it seems to be working but
the
screen okay so I'm going to go grab
another one I guess
put that one
away might as well put the soldering
iron away
too no no we might need
it
it's
for
okay multimeter number two cuz I don't
know what's up with this
one okay so let's
check the reading is
not all that
readable that's okay doesn't have to be
readable by you does it just has to be
read by
me okay
9.53 [__] minus
9.58 so now if we do
this oh
um wait so which one
so we put the black
terminal here so this should be Min - 9
so we go from there to there we get
minus
9 and from here to here we get
N9
yep okay so then these are rounded now
we just get to start stripping lots of
wire um so let's first put the ic's
in so here is our Schmid
triggers looks like he puts it in at
21 sometimes you have to bend the leads
of these things a little bit to get them
in the breadboard so we'll we'll see
about
that let's move this crap we need a
trash can that's what we
need
H okay for now I'll just put this
here yeah we're definitely going to need
a trash can okay so we're going to put
it in at
21 facing upwards so actually we head
this
backwards
okay
21 fits right in okay now we need to
ground everything so I'm going to take
these probes out God I hate these things
should have used
alligator okay um so so now we just need
to make a [__] ton of wire so let me get
my
wire and a trash
can
wire don't need any more of these let's
put this
here uh
[Music]
um yeah okay what should I get for a
trash can
that's
all
right now we have a trash
can uh
which I
will this just to be here I'll put it
cuz I don't need my multi chart
especially not the broken
one the soldering iron can go
too
okay so now we just need to ground all
the inputs to it so that we don't have
noise because otherwise it'll draw power
and random things like
that
okay uh I think this is 22 gauge
wire oh these wire strippers are really
nice
wow that was fantastic mine at home are
trash these just snap it off
man that's
really that's something
special okay so that is its
power but then it starts its inputs on
pin two over here so put this
in okay I need to
remember throw away all of the little
bits of plastic I don't want to make
this Outdoors
messy this beautiful
Outdoors wow these wire strippers are so
nice it's crazy mine at home I'm like
fighting it
constantly nope that's not
right
okay grounded
grounded
this one needs to go to
uh it's too
short
wow this makes life so enjoyable to have
nice sharp
Cutters
this it's the second to last I always
mess that up
okay cool
beans
now we need
uh yeah two
more this is just the boring part so
there are going to be boring
parts so let's just get it
done oh we probably want less than
that this might be too
short
let's pin one on this
side nope
perfect never mind I don't like
it
okay
[Music]
okay so that's very nice we
have everything
grounded we need the diode and we need
the capacitor what diode does he want
so it's
um yeah this one okay I have
that Mr
diode okay so now now that we've
grounded all but one of the Schmid
trigger inputs we will build the
oscillator core which is basically just
this you have the input to a Schmid
trigger tied to a capacitor and a
resistor in in parallel to
ground okay these are
the diodes then I have a resistor pack
here which I might need to go get more
but I found this just lying around so I
figured probably has most of what I
need there we go 100K resistors
perfect the problem is the capacitors
are in this
big you know all these freaking cringy
electrial Engineers are like we going to
do it out we going to do it
inside I don't think that way bro I say
get me outside get me
outside get me
outside yeah that's
okay all right so this one goes to
ground like oh and I like these res res
they're thick there's not many in there
there's only what is that 10 but um so
we'll run out of this quickly but I'll
use them while I have them and then when
the diode we'll grab one of these
diodes does he say what type of diode
signal
diode
okay and then the diode is going
from the diode is
blocking where's the
picture oh there's the pin out that's
nice so the input
is
there and we want to block current from
flowing from the output to the or from
the input to the output right we going
to block current from flowing from the
input to the output so then that means
that the diode is going to
face this
way and you can always tell well pretty
much all the time which way the diode is
by a little line that's printed onto
it okay that's very nice now we need our
capacitor I have to think about that but
then once we're oh and we need to power
this
thing these wire strippers I'm not going
to stop talking about they're given me
life okay we have successfully built the
oscillator
core minus the
capacitor okay so it's a 2.2 n farad all
right I will be
back
okay that took a long time and what that
means for me is I'm going
to hop over to
blank and I'm going to buy some stuff
from
Amazon I'm going to buy
that Capac door get
it
[Music]
okay I'm going to buy this thing and I'm
going to get um also
um we'll see if I need the electrolytic
ones I don't know if I do I probably do
but I'll get that kit later and then I
need a lead free
solder and then we just go to proceed to
checkout
and we buy it Amazon is so
sick
cool okay so now I bought a capacitor
kit cuz I didn't see any I I found this
point this two
nanofarad um one but it's like from the
stone ages you know what I mean we've
gotten better at manufacturing man
plus I think that this will destroy my
breadboard a little bit but right now
the goal of this
stream is we want to test out okay no
they fit in nicely we want to test out
this super cool um oscilloscope because
I've never used it really okay so now
what we need to
do is we want to check that if
we take our
batteries that because we we can't
Supply 18 volts this thing we'll fry it
so we need to make sure that the grounds
are
correct okay
so this one is set up like normal and
the other one is
flipped okay and
then let's get our guy
here and then I'm going to make a small
wire to
measure oh and do we have to bridge do
we have to
connect yeah yeah we probably
do okay so this one will just be for
measuring uh that's
two um um yeah so this one will just be
so that we can connect our probe to
ground
here and then we want to measure the
input to the Schmid trigger which is
here and then we want
um to bridge
ground
rounds
then we should see plus to plus let see
how long do we want that maybe like
there I'll probably end the stream
once it's too short well maybe not I
should have gotten some needle nose
while I was down
there
yeah too
[Music]
short
Okay
cool so now if we
measure so it's oh wait
we oh the sun I'm so
excited
um shoot I didn't think of that
this should we just try it is this thing
running okay so now we need to adjust
scene okay so this is okay so this is
we're going to rename this to
overhead then we need another one which
is going to be
overhead small or uh window and
small
overhead so then this is going to be can
we just copy
this nice that is sick and then we just
want to put
this above
me and put our diodes
away and put our resistors away for
now
yeah I'm getting hungry so
um I don't really want to say [__] it
though
right because the the difference between
here and
here right okay I I think I'm ready to
say [__] it this thing makes sense to me
so what I want to do is I want to go
over to waveforms I want to run
it is it running all right so it's going
so now we want to switch
this here into there okay but then we
want to put the black into plus
here the red
into
so is that working I don't
know I don't know if that's working it
seems like it is can we how do
we want
Auto I mean it seems like it's
oscillating but it's oscillating so
small
range 500 molts I don't know can we make
it
50 I mean that looks pretty good
oops I mean this is a pretty good
indication that it is working
right like it would be
dead
otherwise
cool so we successfully built the
oscillator core
unfortunately I might need to go scr
around for a speaker but we can't listen
to it yet anyways because we need to
buffer it so why don't we add the
um why don't we add the buffer so we're
going to add the
opamp and the uh AC coupling and then we
can be on our Med
way okay so we have so wait now we want
to switch to Big overhead and we can
stop
this and we can actually take it
off so that was very cool it only took
us uh couple hours to
um we don't need well we are going to
need wire so I'll keep this
here um and then we should not power
this
anymore so now we're not powering it
anymore because we don't want to do
anything
silly I'll probably need to buy more
opamps but
[Music]
whatever who is
that I don't even have
that oh
it's I should uh I want to disconnect
this I don't like this I don't want
anyone reading my text messages on my
computer I need to go get my phone
battery all
right anyways so we have
these
t74
oh wait I missed one okay so now we need
to
um I wish it was slightly more zoomed I
wonder if I
can what if I did
this
nope I hate that I got to stop messing
around with this
[Music]
stuff all right that's pretty good okay
so now we actually do want window and we
want to add the t7 for at
30 okay so see these T 74s they make the
legs kind of wide so we need to push
them in a little
bit just ever so
slightly okay and then this one faces
down
okay are we all good I hate bending the
pins on
ic's okay nice that fit in
good there's only two spaces between it
all right
nice so we should power
it ooh
o that's not
good
we do not want these leads to
short I mean it's not the worst thing in
the world but it's just
annoying okay so now we can switch
to
overhead and I'm just going to power
this
okay
so this one there this is kind of long
so we'll do this guy over
here
okay
very nice so now we powered it and we
need a
buffer so we need a short
one
these short ones are really hard to do
but these wire
strippers oh these wire strippers are to
die for I still think this might not
work but we're going to
see yeah I don't think
so okay
throw that away it needs to have like
basically
no no shielding pretty
much that's should be
good that is pretty good
good okay now we have the
buffer now we need to send the out the
um the oscillator yeah to the buffer so
that's
okay I'll take a little more
off that's too much okay and then we're
sting that down
there okay so this goes from
25 down to the input of
the
non-inverting
the heck is going on here come on get in
there there we
go and then the output goes to this AC
coupling which is
easy need a one microfarad so I'll have
to go find that guy and then another 100
oh resistor to ground 100K Ohm resistor
to
ground and then we don't have any AIO
AIO Jacks so I probably should order
some of
those I want the nice ones that he has
but whatever so that's at
41 okay we'll get the resistor in a
second and then we're going to look at
it on the scope and I'm going to get
some
food I'mma cook it up cook it up cook it
up
that's probably long
enough oh
shoot okay then we send this
guy all the way down
to
okay now we just
need uh the
capacitor and
then right what do we what else do we
need we need
um
um yeah now we just okay now I get the
uh
capacitor and then we'll
hook okay yeah I get
it
okay so it appears that we do not
have
um so time to go to Amazon
again time to get
some electrolytic
capacitors
okay
cool all right I just bought some
electrolytic capacitors all right but I
think that
um we don't need that I should have
looked for the speaker while I was down
there speaking
of okay
um
I mean we don't technically need a one
microfarad but you could use something
whatever
um I could divide it down and record it
into my
da but I think I'm going to wrap this
one up oh shoot I forgot okay so what
did we
do um well this is nothing we could just
listen the output there why not why not
do that I'm done with that so we should
see the exact same thing as we had
before except now it's buffered by the
op
amp so this goes here black wire is
obviously stupid for this so now we can
go to window and small overhead we can
run so now we get noise but now we're
going to plug this
in
so we're going to start
powering and then here we reverse it so
that the positive terminal goes to
negative and the negative terminal goes
to
positive and we're seeing
nothing why is
that hopefully we know fry
it well that's not good oh
wait oh it got hot I definitely
destroyed this
thing oh cuz I put it in backwards okay
let's see all
right that's unfortunate this thing is
definitely
dead oh never
mind okay cool so now let's try to
listen to the buffer output
and we have the same
thing it's okay so now I want to add a
voltage
divider
um I don't know how much gain do we
want
1K and 2K let's do
that for
uh I always do this
wrong voltage divider
math right
it's yeah R2 over
R1
so it should be 2 over
three okay so if we connect and I always
forget how to do this uh all we have to
do is instead of using a buffer so what
I'll do is I'll send this to the input
to a non-inverting input of this
buffer how small is
that it's not the worst thing but it's
not
good oh wait this is still being powered
take these guys
out
um okay and then what we're going to do
is
um
have uh [__] okay we're going to have a
1K
the
1K that connects the input and the
output and
then okay I think that this will
work
and if it doesn't it
doesn't but it's so I feel like when I
started doing this like a couple weeks
ago I was like so scared to break
everything all the time and at this
point I'm like all right you know what I
just kind of want it to work and I want
to try
it is that [__] in there yeah it is
okay so this is the 1K and then I think
we want the inverting input to also have
the ground
yeah because we can't tie the output to
ground
duh so we're going to put this
2K and then if we measure the opamps
output we should see it
be 1.3 times
louder so I'm going to tie that to
ground okay we're in
there okay that's in there
okay now we Chang this to be
that and then we plug this in we go to
our this is still running we should
probably turn that off but
whatever see what's going on okay is it
louder I don't think it
is let's see what else do we have in
here
what is the math
again R2 over R1 + R2 so if we increase
R1 okay so let's put let's put a 2K in
there then let's unplug is this shorting
no so we put this
there then in instead of the
1K put a 2K and I wonder does this
waveforms thing does this show a peak to
Peak
somewhere can I get a peak to
Peak it must say Peak to Peak somewhere
like
okay well whatever so we're going to
unplug the
um 1K
resistor we're going to put in a 2K
resistor and so this should
be R2 over R1 +
R2 so it's going to be 1/2 so since
they're of equal uh resistance this in
plus put this in
minus seems to be
clipping I don't like that it doesn't
show
like
so I guess it didn't do
it I don't like that it's so fast like
why can't it why can't it lock onto
it okay well whatever be that as it may
the amplification didn't do what I
wanted it
to um but that's all
right oh let's stop this thing probably
choose through a lot of
CPU okay so anyways that's
uh the first part of the oscillator
in a second we'll change the pitch I'm
going to go look for a small speaker or
like Amplified speakers that I could use
with this
thing I don't know why the amplification
didn't work that's should be how it
is but oh
well I don't think it's going to rain
but I'm worried about
it
okay um maybe I won't stop the stream
and I'll just make some food right
now all right that sounds
good yeah I don't know why this
amplification didn't
work
at least we see a saw too let let me uh
I should I should do a recording let's
do a simple
recording
um but instead
of this we'll put this
[__] we'll just do this
then we'll put this to
ground we'll uncp this and put this onto
here and then
I'll click
run and we'll plug these
guys
in and then we'll do
chord channel two
[Music]
oh it's a binary
file oh I can save it as a
wave oh that's sick
we should do a 50
Kilz all and then let's should we save
20 seconds we should only save uh let's
just save uh two
seconds okay
cool dude this thing is [__]
rad
it's done
right okay wait it was in documents
though default.
wav wait hold on I want
to let's
see
uh let's go to chat jippy let's unplug
this because we already recorded our
sample we're going to see what's up um
in a
minute dude this thing is so freaking
cool that you could just record I love
it
um
can we see the spectrogram oh actually
yeah hold on can we get
this plug it back in and record I want
to look at the spectogram
we should
see what's going on why is it so
noisy oh wait did I change the sample
rate
yeah yeah we don't want we don't want
this sample rate to be so
low but the audio being that look at all
the noise though we don't like
that um how do I change the sample
rate well I know how to do it from here
let's go back to 10 what was it 100
mahz no what the [__] is this
doing
[Music]
um
now but what what is going on
here we
settings no no
no I think if I if
I oh wait hold oh wait I'm an
idiot yeah I'm an idiot hold on no I
want I wanted to change this rate to be
what 100 me 50 MHz that's fine so now I
think if we go back here we run oh and
the trigger is fixed oh sweet okay dude
this software is so cool tell me that uh
oh dude I'm
[__] okay well anyways I've been
using waveforms and it is pretty
cool oh the trigger's in some weird Loop
now what did I
do oh there we go the trigger got [__]
damn
really it's trying to keep
on it should be good
though I don't know why it's not that
good maybe we could just uh do
none
normal what if we turn down the
uh sample rate like 10 MHz
that is a clean
signal where where do I see the peak to
Peak though that's what I do not
understand and where's this
thing what is this
the no no see that's that's the
problem I don't know I feel like we're
not seeing
come on go back to
Auto we should see a massive Peak can I
get this in Herz
bro you
oh no I but the volume I don't care
about
the we should see a massive Peak
though [__] turn off the trigger none
okay that that's
nice he's trying to do too
much I don't know
oh we need the trigger
huh what
happened why is this why is this back
down this is what's nice about having
the knobs I
think all right let's turn this off cuz
this isn't helping me at
all and then let's fix this triggered
Auto no something's wrong what's going
wrong I no I think it's just the sample
rate I don't know why it changed the
sample rate on me you're not allowed to
change the sample rate
buddy maybe it's too high
frequency if we lower the res I think
think if we lower the
resistance to
ground then the frequency gets
higher so we need to increase it okay so
we want to zoom in though
show entire capture
thumbnail I mean it absolutely should be
able to clock into this
thing mode
repeated let's bump it up to uh
all
right I don't really know how to play
with these parameters let's do
50 why is the trigger being so stupid
though
condition
Rising that's pretty good let's try
auto let's try
falling
Rising yeah has a hard time with Rising
I think that's probably it's but this is
pretty
good so we want to
measure so wait can I just
pause stop okay and then I can click and
how how do I annotate
something quick measure vertical quick
measure
free so I want to
Delta x 83 micros
seconds oh it's uh 10
khz that's too high to
here so if we raise the
resistance so we try to put one of these
1 M let's do some experimenting oh it's
so good to be back in California in the
sun
just feel like you can take on the
world
okay so
100K
2K [__]
man I could have sworn I saw one m on
here I'll put them all back in a
second here's a 1
M the PO all the potentiometers are
downstairs luckily I also have some
trimmers but I feel like I'll probably
have still have to buy
more all right so now what we're going
to do let's unplug just in
case [__] I'm an
idiot oh
God resistor
chart I'm literally so
stupid okay I don't know what these two
bands on the sides
are I'm pretty sure that this is just
black black orange no that doesn't make
sense oh it's
brown black black
orange yeah that makes sense brown
black
black no that's not
right thing is this thing has five
stripes on
it okay so yes we got brown black black
orange
brown is that
true and where the freak did I put this
one brown y brown black black yellow
brown okay this one all right so we're
going to unplug this
guy and we're going to replace it with
this one Mega oh
okay so our original frequency was 10
khz or 11 khz which is like not
inaudible but like
excruciating way too high pitch so now
what we want to do is we want to plug
this back
in okay we want to run see does it get a
trigger let's zoom out a little bit okay
now we can
stop zoom out oh shoot okay Run
Stop zoom
in I want to going to change this to
here
to
[__] oh I I see what's going on okay
hold
on no
stop okay so now that's yeah so that's
10 times less so this is more in the
audible frequency because we 10 xed the
resistance
so we should see uh 10x decrease in uh
frequency so that's good okay now we can
uh uh
cool um let's see what else do we have
to do we have
to finish this though maybe I should do
the transistor part now the thing is I
don't have a speaker it's really
annoying
and I really want that uh spectrogram
thing to work too if I just pull that up
does that just work like with the
current
sample oh it does why isn't this in Herz
though I hate that
dude is spectrogram what I'm thinking
of
oh
wait
no yeah it makes sense that there's
harmonics because it's not a sine
wave so it does make sense that there's
multiple Peaks sort of but I I don't
know if I'm reading this right CU this
is like
a
like
like what is
this all right I think
um I'm going to make some food it does
not look like it's going to rain so I
don't have to like freak out about that
even though I'm paranoid about
it the natural light thing kind of makes
it
beautiful and the sound of birds now
that there's no trash cans I might
remove this background noise thing
cuz I think it's cool to hear the sound
of Outdoors while making Electronics so
we're going to disable the noise
suppression they can hear the
birds cool cool
cool okay I guess I'll be back in like
minutes all right I'm going to make some
food none of this is going to blow away
but I'm worried about
it blowing away in the
wind they always make these resistor
bags so
small it's like just make a I'm easy to
get out of
here actually this one's probably big
this one's kind of big
enough need to get my phone charger I
phone
is oh
[__] okay let me get my phone
char
[Music]
all right we'll do the tuning in a
second now it's time to make food
charging everything set
up
um
okay
[Music]
for
e
[Music]
for
I'm in
californiaa I'm in
California see the steam coming off
these beautiful eggs
toast and
eggs I'll eat
here o actually should I do that it's
kind of a hype
thing all right so now I need a new
scene though I need a scene with window
and not this so let's duplicate this and
say uh window face no overhead
and then we just take this guy and
delete it or yeah
delete cool now we can go to YouTube do
I have desktop audio on yeah I
do
nice I forgot to get an
napkin it's good to be
home this is
delightful am I
uh
[Music]
my radio comes today
too
for
I thought series resistors ad
oh LED
series all right I'll be
back
for
oh so I put that in the
recy okay
good California
[Music]
he
I want to watch the kick drum one then
slow only make our kick a pain to build
but also the initial punch that you'd
expect from a real drum traditionally
you'd ulate that by manipulating the
pitch alongside the volume starting off
quite high and then quickly dropping
towards a steady base
frequency all right this is beginning to
sound quite serviceable so let's think
about how we could Implement these
blocks in our circuit in an ideal
scenario we'd want to use a full-blown
vco Sr oscillator so we can precisely
manipulate its pitch via a control
voltage coming from an envelope
generator next we'd need to add a proper
VCA and yet another envelope generator
which in combination would allow us to
shape the Signal's volume curve into the
aforementioned quick burst now the
problem with this approach is that each
of these circuits is plenty complex on
its own throw four of them together and
you've got quite the Behemoth of a
schematic this would not only make our
kick a pain to build but also hard to
analyze and relatively expensive so we
should probably think of an alternate
approach thankfully the people working
at Roland in the 70s were faced with the
same issue and they came up with a
couple really clever shortcuts and hacks
that we can borrow basically they found
a way to smash a pseudo vco VCA and
envelope generator into a single block
made from just a handful of components
the basis for that block is this little
circuit consisting of just one up amp
two resistors and two capacitors
together they form a strange sine wave
oscillator that needs to be kickstarted
by a voltage pulse to actually oscillate
and even then it won't continue
oscillating like other oscillators do
but quickly drop in volume and
eventually fizzle out completely which
isn't great for most scenarios but ideal
for ours so let's look at how this works
we'll assume that the voltage at the
opm's non-inverting input quickly jumps
from 0 to 1 volt now to reach a state of
balance the OPM will try to push the
voltage at its inverting input up to 1
volt as well for that it'll increase its
output voltage to 1 volt initially this
will work just fine since that voltage
pushes straight through the two
capacitors and reaches the inverting
input that way but because there is a
resistant to ground between the two caps
we'll C current drain out from the first
capacitor which means that the voltage
applied to the second cap and
subsequently the inverting input will
drop to compensate the opamp will raise
its output voltage but as it does that
even more current is squeezed out of the
first cap forcing the op amp to push
even harder and this would continue
until the op amp runs into the upper
Supply voltage if it weren't for the
bridge resistor down here because as the
op amp pushes harder and harder that
resistor allows a small current to
charge up the second cap from the other
side at some point this process will add
more voltage on the left as we lose on
the right causing the whole mechanism to
kick into reverse gear now the opamp
will start dropping its output voltage
to try and course correct only problem
is that this will pull current out of
the first cap and subsequently up from
ground increasing the voltage between
the two caps and also at the inverting
input which forces the op amp to reduce
its output voltage even further
eventually we'll again reach a Tipping
Point where the whole mechanism reverses
only this time it'll be at a slightly
lower output voltage that's because with
every charging and discharging cycle we
lose a bit of the momentum we initially
put in the circuit behaves kind of like
a pendulum that way and so the output it
produces is a sine wave swinging around
the non-inverting input voltage with a
steadily decreasing amplitude which
should already sound pretty kick drish
if the frequency is low enough to make
sure that it is we have to choose the
red combination of capacitor and
resistor values this is a little tricky
since all of those values influence both
frequency and Decay at the same time in
the original 808 based drum schematic
Roland used a 1 megaohm Bridge a 51k
resistance to ground and two 50
nanofarad capacitors giving them a 50 HZ
oscillation frequency with a really
quick Decay let's use those values as a
starting point to be able to actually
trigger the sound we'll then add a quick
and dirty push button connected to the
positive rail on one side and the op amp
on the other because the oscillator
needs enough room to swing we'll have to
divide the Supply voltage down for that
we'll simply insert a 100K 14k voltage
divider at the non-inverting input to
test this out I've already set the
circuit up on the breadboard before I
push the button though I recommend that
you plug in some headphones you might
not hear much otherwise ready here we
go as expected we get a quick blow
frequency bump great though you might
have noticed that we get a second bump
when I let go of the button what's up
with that well as we saw earlier the
oscillation is triggered when the
voltage at the non-inverting input
changes and the opam struggles to charge
or discharge the second cap to that
voltage so it makes sense that we get a
second bump when we drop the input
voltage this is not ideal though because
now we'll try to control our kick with a
sequencer that sends out a gate signal
that gate will go high for a while
before it drops back down to ground
level this gives us two separate kick
hits when we'd only want to hear one
bummer so what can we do about that
simple we'll shorten the gate so much
that the two separate kick hits blend
into to one of the same for that we'll
set up a little circuit known as a gate
to trigger converter it consists of two
distinct sections first a high pass
filter with a pretty steep cut of
frequency and second an OPM based
comparator here's how it works when we
apply a gate sign to the input capacitor
we get a voltage Spike on the other side
that quickly dies down as the cap
charges through the 39K resistor to
ground for the Split Second this Spike
crosses its threshold voltage the
comparator will then push out an
extremely short 12 volts gate also
called a trigger those 12 volts are then
scaled down to around 1.4 volts by the
voltage divider at the Kick's trigger
input you'll notice that there's also a
diode pointing up from ground at the
opm's non-inverting input this is
necessary because some upams will glitch
out if they read a very negative input
voltage in this scenario this is an
issue because once the gate goes low we
normally see a big negative Spike as the
capacitor discharges the diode mitigates
that by allowing the cap to discharge
instantly great there's just one more
issue left to solve with this setup
during the comparator low State it'll
set its output to minus 12 Vols simply
because that's what we give it as a low
Supply voltage this is not ideal because
remember our oscillator will swing
around the voltage we apply to the
non-inverting input for audio signals
that voltage should be0 volts ground
level so how do we fix this simple by
placing a diode after the comparative
output this way the trigger can pass
through but the comparator low state is
blocked and the voltage gets pinned to
ground level via the voltage divider
instead and here's how this works out in
practice I'm feeding the sequencers gate
output into the gate to trigger
converter which I've then hooked up to
the oscillator's trigger input
and yeah we now get a single kick hit
instead of two per gate Great next let's
try and mess with the oscillator's pitch
as I said before this is a little tricky
since all of the component values in the
feedback path influence both pitch and
Decay at the same time that said varying
the resistance to ground is probably our
best bet since it affects the pitch much
more noticeably than the Decay so let's
replace the 51k resistor with a 100K
potentiometer and see how we fair right
now I've got the potentiometer set dead
in the middle so the same pitch as
before next let's see what happens if we
turn the
[Music]
knob as expected we can vary the pitch
over a pretty wide range now for our
Kick Drum it makes sense to restrict
that range to the lower frequency
spectrum to do that we just have to put
a baseline resistance in series with our
potentiometer with a 10K the highest
possible pitch is around 110 Herz which
is bothering on Tom
territory
[Music]
and yeah that worked as intended great
with the pitch sorted let's talk about
the Decay right now it's way too short
so I'd like to make it a good deal
longer Unfortunately this will be a bit
more involved than changing the pitch
that's because in order to keep the
oscillation going for longer we either
need to reduce the amount of momentum we
lose during each wave cycle or find a
way to add some back in to try and do
the former we need to increase the value
of the bridge resistor because as a rot
of thumb the relation between between
bridge and resistance to ground
determines how much momentum we lose per
wave cycle if they're close to the same
value you won't get any oscillation if
there orders of magnitude apart you get
a relatively long tail only trouble is
that increasing the bridge resistance
will also lower the pitch and there's a
hard upper limit for the maximum Decay
we can squeeze out of this since we're
already pretty close to that upper limit
and it would be great if the pitch
stayed the same I think we should skip
this approach and focus on the other one
adding momentum back in to do that we'll
set up an inverting buffer and feed it
the Kick's output then we'll take the
buffer output and connect it to the node
between our two capacitors through a big
resistor here's how it works we'll
imagine that we've just triggered the
kick which means that the output voltage
is rising like before this will push
current out of the first capacitor but
unlike before we also actively pull
current out via this newly added second
path that's because the inverting buffer
output voltage will always be the
inverse of the Kick's output voltage so
as the voltage pushing against the first
cap increases the voltage pulling at it
from the other side decreases in lock
step which in turn decreases the voltage
at the inverting input forcing the kick
to push even harder and of course the
same idea applies in Reverse when the
Kick's output changes Direction then the
inverting buffer will push against the
Caps exaggerating the downward motion of
the kick we're basically applying
positive feedback to the system which
with these resistor values will keep the
oscillation going indefinitely without
altering the pitch and here's how this
pans out on the bread
B that looks like a pretty stable sine
wave to me since we do want that
oscillation to die down over time though
we'll need to dial back the amount of
feedback we apply for that we'll simply
add a control that allows us to reduce
the inverting buffer gain that gain in
case you don't know is set by the
relation between the input and the
feedback resistance if the feedback
resistance is smaller than the input
resistance the gain drops below one and
vice versa so we could simply replace
the feedback resistance with a
potentiometer like
this and while it does work there is a
small issue here setting the Decay feels
very uneven because it abruptly flips
from short and Punchy to super long why
is that well it seems like the relation
between the inverting buffer gain and
the amount of Decay we get is
exponential so as we change the
resistance linearly the Decay changes
exponentially to counteract this we
could switch our linear pot for a
reverse logarithmic one which would
cancel out the exponential Behavior
unfortunately that type of pot can be
difficult to find lucky for us we can
fake a reverse lock potentiometer if we
simply put a big linear pot in parallel
with the original 47k resistor because
of the way those resistances will
interact the end result mimics a reverse
lock curve quite
convincingly and indeed dialing in the
Decay is now much smoother all right so
that's the Decay down our kick is
starting to take shape but there's one
essential element still missing the
initial punch you get from a pitch
envelope now to get there we need to
modify our design so that the Kick's
pitch can be manipulated using a voltage
but doing this cleanly would be quite
involved thankfully there's another
quick dirty hack we can apply here
remember how we discovered that the
resistance to ground between the two
capacitors here determines the
oscillation frequency that was because
the faster current can be pushed out of
or pulled into the capacitor on the
right the faster the whole mechanism
will swing so if we had a component
whose resistance can be controlled with
a voltage we'd be golden unfortunately
that component doesn't really exist at
least not in an ideal form so we'll have
to make do with a compromised version
and the most widely available
compromised version is probably the good
old npn transistor paper it sounds like
it does exactly what
okay all right um yeah I'm going to go
on a hike which is sick because I
haven't been on a hike in
forever I want to get some slides
because um then I can wear
socks all right so what did we do we
built so we're going to switch over to
window small no we're going to overhead
so we built this circuit which is a
voltage controlled oscillator except
it's not voltage controlled it's just an
oscillator
um why is it not focusing well stop
stop look at that Dumbo well anyways um
and then what we did is we looked
at this program called waveforms which
controls this digital oscilloscope that
I got which is super
cool super super cool
and we played around with it and then
that's it and we'll be back I don't know
in a few
hours um to
continue okay
bye-bye